Let's talk about images in Ionic. Now
thus far I always use the ion-img element and that is a special Ionic component that in the end will
wrap the normal web, HTML,
IMG, image tag but will add extra optimizations to it.
Now inside of a virtual scrolling list, if you have items with images, you should always use ion-img
because ion-virtual-scroll and ion-img will work together as such that images are loaded efficiently
in advance as well but even outside of a virtual scrolling list, I strongly recommend considering
and well if possible using the and ion-img element. Why?
Because this element loads images lazily, which means only when they are really needed. It will not load
images that are not visible or about to become visible,
so if you have a longer list of elements or simply a page with a lot of content on it and you got images
somewhere down if you scroll down, then this will only load the image when you are about to see it
and why is this better than always loading all images in advance?
Well it hits your bandwidth, your network bandwidth less which can be a thing for users of your app in
let's say areas with bad internet connection or with limited bandwidth plans on their mobile providers.
So that is one thing
and of course your page also simply is downloading faster if you're not loading all images in advance
and therefore ion-img is how you should include images in your Ionic app.
Now what about ion-thumbnail or ion-avatar as you also saw it in this app already?
These are simply wrappers, ion-thumbnail renders a square image for example and ion-avatar simply renders
a rounded image,
so this is simply just some styling that makes your image or whatever you have in there look good
and that's also worth pointing out. Into ion-thumbnail or ion-avatar,
you don't have to pass in an ion-img,
you can also pass in some text or whatever you want,
ion-avatar just gives you a rounded element with that content inside of it,
ion-thumbnail gives you a square element but in both cases if you do use an image, they will automatically
adjust this image to look good inside of that container,
so to center it and make sure it has the right dimensions.
That is how you should use images,
not too complicated but still worth pointing out.